[WEIN]
Thanks to your help,
we were able to evacuate
the city of Mealtars
and its citizens are now
safe and unharmed.
On their behalf, and mine,
please accept our gratitude.
Well, the Teachings of
Levetia command us to help
the oppressed, so we
were happy to do it.
Now all those people are safe
from the tyranny of the empire.
So how did you end up as
Mealtars' representative
in all this?
Actually, I'm afraid that's a
long and complicated story.
Suffice it to say this
gentleman is the mayor,
and I have his approval.
[WEIN] And now I have a
question for you, if I may,
after so graciously
offering us your protection,
what will you and
your army do now?
Why drive back the princes
and free the city, of course.
That would be the
obvious next move.
Right, King Gruyere?
Indeed, that was the plan.
That is most generous
of you, but in helping
all those people escape
the city without injury,
you've already done much more
than we could ever repay.
We couldn't possibly
impose on your compassion
any further than
we have already.
Right, and after you've removed
yourselves from our protection,
what will you do?
We're going to retake
the city on our own.
And to that end, we'd be willing
to buy whatever surplus weapons
and food you may have for
triple the going price.
[WEIN] All right,
let's see what they say.
[CALDMELLIA] You wish to
purchase our excess supplies?
Please don't misunderstand me.
I realize that mere money
could never sway you,
motivated as you
are by the desire
to serve God's divine will.
However, in a mercantile
city like Mealtars,
the coin is the ultimate
symbol of good faith.
Please, accept our
payment in that spirit.
And after we recapture
the city, we shall erect
a large temple as well as
a monument in your honor.
[gulps]
[WEIN]
Having taken in 30,000 refugees,
the Levetians' options
will be rather limited.
My guess is they'd like to
return home if they can,
although...
So, if we do give you supplies
and take our leave,
then you'll repay us
in money and reverence?
[CALDMELLIA] He's amazing.
There's no doubt about it,
that move was far beyond
all my expectations.
And for that reason,
Prince Wein,
I'll simply have to refuse you.
[WEIN]
Heh.
[CALDMELLIA] I can't help it, I
want to play with him some more.
To injure him with a denial,
and then poke and
prod at the wound.
Just to find out how
he'll react and then--
[GRUYERE]
We accept.
[gasps] Uh, King Gruyere,
what did you just say?
What I said, Director Caldmellia
of the Bureau of Teachings,
is that we would
accept his proposal.
I believe that this matter
falls under my responsibility.
But the military falls under
mine, and as such, I have spoken
my piece. We should
go along with this.
He'll most likely turn
the refugees into a militia.
He hopes the princes
will wear each other down,
making them more
open to negotiate.
The alternative would be to have
the people of Mealtars
fight alongside us,
but I have no intention of
getting caught up in your whims.
Fine, we'll sell you
our surplus supplies.
But until we confirm
you've retaken the city,
our army stays put.
No objections here.
I thank you both heartily
for your kind cooperation.
[MESSENGER A] I have a
report for His Highness!
You say the people of
Mealtars took up arms?
Indeed. They're marching
down the hill even now!
[BARDLOCHE gasping]
[LOWELLMINA] The people
have been organized into
an impressive-looking militia.
But will they be able to
drive off my brothers?
[WEIN] The princes recognize
that the value of Mealtars
is in its people.
They won't want to fight
because the more they kill,
the less they have to gain.
Besides, they're well aware that
the Levetian army is
waiting in the wings.
Send a message to
Manfred immediately!
[WEIN]
Now, just one thing left to do.
Lowa, please invite
the princes to a meeting.
Wait, not that old trick.
Of course, at times like these,
it's my go-to move!
Wait, you know who's behind
the assassination attempt?
[WEIN grunts]
Just what are you suggesting?
Certainly, you're not implying
that we're responsible.
I kept coming back
to the same question.
How was the assassin able
to achieve such a thing?
What do you mean by that?
[WEIN] Security across
the city was airtight.
Specifically, there were private
guards placed at each compound.
Which would make
pulling off an attack
of this nature extremely tricky.
But there is somebody who
could have made it happen.
And that person is not
presently with us in this room.
You mean.,,
That's right!
The perpetrator here
is none other than
Prince Demetrio himself!
And with that, the truth
has been revealed.
That's absurd!
Why would he harm himself?
Mealtars' reputation has
suffered greatly due to
this incident, and both of
your forces have taken a hit.
If Demetrio were to
return now with an army...
Just think, he'd be able
to take both Mealtars
and the imperial throne
all for himself.
I'm beginning to see it
quite clearly now.
Demetrio never wanted
the summit to succeed.
He merely pressed
his claim to the throne
and shut down all other
avenues of discussion.
[MANFRED] They're really
planning to make Demetrio...
[BARDLOCHE] ...take the fall
for the whole situation.
[BARDLOCHE, MANFRED grunt]
[WEIN] Yes. The failed summit,
the assassination attempt,
the armed conflict,
the bad weather,
and anything else
we can think of.
We're going to pin every
last bit of it on Demetrio!
[LOWELLMINA]
And there it is,
his old "trial in
absentia" trick.
On behalf of Mealtars,
we are fully prepared
to offer you compensation
for any losses
that you may have incurred
in this unnecessary fight.
Of course, we shall also refrain
from engaging in any relations
with Prince Demetrio
from this day forward.
[BARDLOCHE]
If I reject their proposal,
I can be sure Manfred
will agree to it.
[MANFRED] Even if I turn them
down and Bardloche and I
manage to take Mealtars,
we'll still have to
fight for the throne.
And going after each other
would only help Demetrio,
he'd swoop in and claim victory.
All right, then.
I think that we can consider
the matter settled.
I knew I could count
on the two of you
to understand the situation.
[laughs]
[COSIMO]
I'm afraid we've caused you
a great deal of
needless trouble.
As far as I'm concerned,
this has been a
welcome opportunity
to build a meaningful
relationship with Mealtars.
[LOWELLMINA]
Making Demetrio the scapegoat
has taken him
out of the equation.
The same goes for my brothers'
forces surrounding the city.
As a result, Mealtars is now
firmly aligned with my faction.
Even so, I fully recognize
that the hearts of your people
lie with you, not me.
[LOWELLMINA] I've come to
an important realization,
the measure of a sovereign
goes far beyond mere strength.
You know, when Prince Wein
and I were preparing
to have our meeting
with King Gruyere
and Lady Caldmellia,
I took the opportunity to ask
why he was so enthusiastic
about working with Mealtars.
What did he say?
Falanya seems to have taken
a shine to this city.
As her big brother,
I want to do everything I
possibly can to support her.
[gasps]
[COSIMO] It's extraordinary,
don't you think?
He was willing to
wager his own fate,
along with that
of our entire city,
for the sake of his
little sister's happiness.
[laughing]
[coughing]
That was rough.
I guess my body's not used
to laughing that hard.
Why don't we give that--
[NINYM]
Give it a rest.
Why are you straining your vocal
cords for something so stupid?
Hey, chances like this
don't come along too often,
so how 'bout you just ease up
and let me enjoy the moment?
Well, you do have good
reason to celebrate.
And that's thanks to
our booming exports.
Natra's economy is
really thriving.
Our prosperity will cause
both the people's happiness
and our budget to grow.
And the kingdom will just
keep increasing in value.
I am sittin' pretty now!
Nothing but princely blue
skies ahead for this guy!
You know, I could have sworn
you told me that you
were going to sell off
the kingdom and retire.
Who, me? No way!
You must be thinking
of some other prince.
There's no way I'd give this up.
I'll milk my position
for everything
it's worth! Oh, yeah!
Just look at this, revenue
from the Marden region
is up significantly.
True! All thanks
to my brilliant plan!
By swearing allegiance to Natra,
Marden has gained access
to an abundance of
goods from the east.
But the western nations don't
really have any interest
in importing those goods.
Well, in the Levetians'
view, the eastern half
of the continent is
barbarian territory.
They'd never accept anything
that comes from the east.
And that's why we're
working with Marden
on a joint operation to conceal
the origin of the products
they export! It's just
so fiendishly clever!
This partnership between our
nations has been a huge success,
greatly enriching
Marden's coffers.
What a genius I am!
It's almost a burden.
Of course, at this rate,
Marden's economy
will rival ours in
less than a decade.
Then they could
declare independence.
Well, we certainly can't afford
to have that happening.
[NINYM] The smartest move
may be to find ourselves
another major trading partner.
[knocking]
Yes? Come in.
[door opens]
[LIEGEMAN A]
Excuse me, Your Highness.
An envoy has recently arrived
from the Kingdom of Soljest.
Soljest, you say?
[NINYM grunts]
Escort them to the
audience chamber please.
[LIEGEMAN A]
Of course.
[NINYM] Soljest? Any idea what
King Gruyere might want?
--[WEIN laughs]
--Huh?
I just thought of
a great new plan.
[ZENOVIA] Prince Wein is
planning to visit Marden?
Yes, it seems His Highness was
invited to attend a ceremony
in the Kingdom of Soljest
and he would like
to stop in for a visit
here on his way.
I think we can safely assume
that the prince is
mostly concerned
about the future of Marden
as a vassal state of Natra.
Very well, then. Let us
demonstrate our allegiance
and put His Highness at ease.
Yes, Marden is at an
advantageous position
at present. This may be a
good opportunity to redress
the disparities
in our relationship
and perhaps even extract a
few concessions from Natra.
Concessions you say,
and tell me, Jiva.
Just what did you have in mind?
Marriage between
His Highness, Prince Wein,
and yourself, Lady Zenovia.
[gasps]
Since negotiations with Soljest
will be at the
forefront of his mind,
we can expect that he'll try to
avoid giving us a clear answer,
but it would be in our
best interests to extract
a commitment from him
while he is still here.
[ZENOVIA] Such a marriage would
boost Marden's standing in Natra
tremendously and greatly
expand our influence.
I wonder, could it
really be possible?
What are you getting
so worked up about now?
All I wanna do is
tousle it a little bit.
I already told you, if you do
that, you'll mess up the color.
Please! Please! Please!
I'm sorry, no. Back to
what you were saying,
is it really your intention
to marry Zenovia?
[WEIN]
No way,
I'd prefer to remain unattached
for the time being.
Really? Why is that?
Well because! Then I can
sit back and enjoy
a bevy of beauties
fighting over me-- Ow!
No, not really!
Be good, and I won't break it.
The title of queen consort is
a useful negotiating tool,
so it's best to keep
it open. There!
Good point.
[WEIN] We need to get a sense of
exactly where Marden stands.
If they intend to maintain a
cooperative relationship
with Natra. That's our
primary purpose here.
And if the answer is yes...
Then chances are they're gonna
push for me to marry Zenovia,
a subject I will do
everything I can to avoid.
You are terrible.
I bid you most welcome,
Your Highness.
How gracious of you,
great Marchioness.
[ZENOVIA] Your Highness. I have
no need of such formalities.
Please just address me
as Zenovia.
Very well, if you prefer.
Heh. Zenovi-- Ah...
Boobies! Boobies!
Boobies! Boo--
[WEIN] Idiot! Concentrate
with everything you've got!
[ZENOVIA] I must admit, the idea
did take me by surprise.
How clever, to import
goods from the empire,
and resell them as Natran-made.
[WEIN] I'm just glad to know
the good people of the west
have been able to profit by it.
Sometimes, a creative solution
really does the trick.
You know, Zenovia, rapid growth
can be awfully overwhelming.
It would be my pleasure
to offer you counsel
on anything that
might be troubling you.
Oh, well. Actually,
we got a letter of protest
from the Kingdom of Delunio,
on the subject of trade.
Delunio, you say?
I see. You too then, huh?
Then Natra got one as well?
That's right. A letter
complaining about
some goods we traded.
Yes. They are a very
conservative kingdom.
And their king happens
to be quite young,
so political matters
are usually handled
by their prime minister,
Sirgis. He's patriotic,
extremely so, and also a
dyed-in-the-wool Levetian.
His kingdom's culture
is important to him.
He doesn't want it corrupted
by foreign influences.
It's safe to say he likely
resents the two of us.
Well, just keep at it.
What? Are you sure about that?
Sending a letter isn't that
serious in the grand scheme
of things. Start worrying about
it when you've got a line
of envoys protesting
outside your door.
Well, all right, then.
That's exactly what I'll do.
[ZENOVIA laughs]
[WEIN] Huh? I-Is that
all she has to say?
When I asked if she
had any concerns,
she was supposed to
bring up the disparities
between our lands and
bring up the marriage thing.
At least, that's how
I saw this going.
[NINYM] They were going
to push for marriage,
and you'd avoid the
subject at all costs.
[WEIN grunts]
I believe that's how you said
this would be working out.
[WEIN screaming]
She must be holding back for now
so she can make her
big move tomorrow!
Maybe while we're touring around
the city. Yeah, that's it!
Let's just hope
they don't find out
about your overinflated ego.
[WEIN]
Yes, for the sake of my honor,
that's one thing
we've got to avoid!
It's an honor to once again be
in your company, Prince Wein.
So, Zeno. How do you
serve the marchioness?
As one of milady's
loyal attendants.
I watch the city, and handle
other affairs as needed.
Today's task is that I have
the pleasure of showing you
around the city
on milady's behalf.
[WEIN] Sure enough.
She's gonna use the tour
as her opportunity to strike.
Well, shall we?
[ZENOVIA] The bronze statues in
our central plaza were erected
as a symbol of Marden's desire
for peace and prosperity.
At the moment, our land is still
in the process of recovering
from the recent war.
But we hope that a lasting peace
has finally been achieved.
[WEIN] You needn't worry,
as long as your economy
remains strong, Marden
will continue to thrive.
Your economic strength
is quite a powerful ward
against outside interference.
And so, after you've
grown strong enough,
you can ultimately
seek your independence.
That must be your goal
in the long term, yes?
Well, not exactly.
Lady Zenovia and her vassals
feel that being a part of Natra
is the best way to ensure
that Marden's prosperity
continues for
future generations.
That's wonderful to hear.
[WEIN]
So she intends to maintain
a cooperative relationship with
Natra after all. Which means...
Well then, let's take a break.
There's a bench nearby.
[WEIN]
All right, here it comes!
She's about to broach
the marriage issue!
So, what do you think?
Impressed?
The people's energy and the
sights are something to behold.
And seeing all this firsthand,
it's clear how much they
count on their leader.
[ZENOVIA]
You're correct.
Her support continues to grow as
a result of the economic boom.
[WEIN] It's nice to have a sense
of goodwill between rulers
and their people.
But you can never rest easy.
There's something
I've wanted to ask you
for a long while now.
Why is it that Your Highness
has such a wary relationship
with your own people?
Wary?
Oh, well, perhaps "wary"
isn't exactly the word
I'm looking for.
Maybe it's more like "distant"?
Ah, I see...
Let me ask you this, then,
is a noble bloodline
considered venerable?
Huh? Of course, it is!
That's something
that's simply accepted
as common knowledge
by everyone.
[WEIN]
All right, next question.
At what point exactly does
this venerability take effect?
At what point does
it take effect?
[WEIN] Let's consider me,
a Natran royal.
If I'm venerable by virtue
of my bloodline,
then when did I become so?
[ZENOVIA]
Mm... When you were born, right?
Indeed. If my blood
carries a certain virtue,
then I'd be imbued
with it automatically.
So then, when did my
father become that way?
[ZENOVIA] When he was born, just
the same as Your Highness.
Precisely. The same goes
for his father before him,
and his father as well.
It keeps on passing down from
one generation to the next.
It's just simple logic.
Now, Ninym, if we trace my
bloodline far back enough,
where would we finally end up?
It extends back to
chief disciple Caleus,
the founder of the
Levetian religion.
[WEIN]
That's correct.
And before he was
Levetia's disciple,
Caleus was a humble farmer,
and his parents, too.
Now, answer me this,
just when did the bloodline
of Caleus become venerable?
When he began following Levetia
and started to accomplish
great things. Is that correct?
That's absolutely correct.
By relying on their
intelligence, their strength,
or even just plain good luck,
commoners can
distinguish themselves
and gain renown.
If you trace a noble bloodline
back far enough,
you will eventually
find a commoner.
I'm confused.
What exactly does any of that
have to do with my question?
[WEIN]
Think about it.
If even the haughtiest
of nobles and royals
can be traced back to
a commoner's bloodline,
then even those looked down
upon as commoners today
could one day
become noble or royal.
[ZENOVIA gasps]
--[bell tolls]
-[PEOPLE chattering]
Now getting back
to your question.
You ask me why I'm
wary of the people.
Natra has 800,000 citizens.
Every last one of them
is a potential royal.
All of them watching me,
wherever I go, whatever I do.
Is it any wonder
I'm wary of them?
When you think about it,
I guess that's the reason why
so many royals make a
point of establishing
a mythology surrounding
their families.
Zeno? What's wrong?
Nothing. It's just that,
once again, I find myself
overwhelmed by what an
incredibly great man you are.
I'll be fine.
What? An incredibly great man?
Well, that's awfully kind of
you to say, but as it happens,
I'm not feeling so great
at this very moment.
Why is that?
Well, the fact is, I was
expecting a marriage proposal
that never came to pass,
and somehow,
I got the idea that maybe
I had an overinflated ego.
Ah. Of course I'm not too sure
what you're talking about.
However, if you mean
a certain Mardenian,
she may be too busy
with affairs of state
to consider the idea of
marriage at the present time.
Wait! Hasn't she considered the
fact that if she marries me,
she won't have to worry about
those affairs of state anymore?
You have a very
good point there.
Perhaps, she has a shallower
reason for avoiding marriage.
What are you talking about?
Maybe she simply doesn't find
Your Highness attractive.
You know?
[gasps]
[laughs]
But of course, I'm only kidding.
Well, in any event.
It's probably about time
we start heading
back to the palace,
wouldn't you say?
Under the light at
this time of day,
the city has a whole
different feel to it.
[WEIN]
Doesn't find me attractive...
Curse my overinflated ego!
You realize the
only reason she said
that was to throw
you off, don't you?
[WEIN] If you need me,
I'll be hibernating.
Oh, really.
Forgive me, Jiva.
Prince Wein broached the subject
of marriage, but I held back.
He feels distant,
even intimidating.
The way you're describing it
makes it sound like Prince Wein
is something of a hero
to you, Lady Zenovia.
It's true, and it's painfully
apparent when I speak with him.
I might as well admit it.
I couldn't possibly be a
queen to such a great man,
and yet, it's clear
that marriage
would have been
the right move here.
I'm afraid I've failed
as a leader.
If it is not your wish to marry
His Highness, rest assured
we would never
pressure you to do so.
Your vassals shall help
you find the way forward
that is best for you.
Please rely on us.
Thank you.
[JIVA]
Such is our duty.
[OFFICIAL A]
Milady!
What's all this about?
[OFFICIAL A]
The prime minister of Delunio
has shown up at the front gate!
Sirgis is here?